---
layout: post
title:      "**Taking the Leap**"
date:       2018-09-03 16:24:19 +0000
permalink:  taking_the_leap
---

# 
Ever feel doubtful about the path you're on? Are you wanting more of a challenge or a role in which you can really utilize your true strengths? Something that will give you a sense of fulfilment everyday? That's exactly where I've found myself these last few years. The next question to ask yourself is what's holding you back from making that change? I know, I know, change can be scary! However, the decision to make that change is often the hardest part. You've probably heard some variation of this quote before, but I like how author Napoleon Hill has put it: "Strength and growth come only through continous effort and struggle." These things dont come easy, and if you're starting to feel complacent (like I was) then I'd argue it's time to make a change!

Let's take a quick journey back through what's led to this point. Growing up we moved around a lot. I've always embraced change and looked to make the best of any situation. That being said, one thing I could always rely on was learning new things, especially anything that provided a creative outlet. Technology and art always resonated the most with me. From a young age I dabbled in just about anything I could get my hands on, whether that was playing guitar, taking calligraphy lessons, drawing, painting, and even programming through introductions to C++ and HTML/CSS. I loved (and still do) anything that allows me to think outside of the box and take creative approaches to solving problems. Fast forwarding a few years, I found myself losing track of that in college and instead started going with the flow. Ultimately I ended up hopping around a few different focuses, such as Architecture, Construction Management, Management Information Systems, general business, etc., before ultimately landing on Manadarin Chinese. I know, a bit of an odd path. 

Mandarin really allowed me to focus on a fascination with languages and complexity, even art to a degree, and provided me a fantastic opportunity to spend a year living in downtown Beijing. I certainly wouldnt trade that experience for anything, but like many people, I wish I had a bit more foresight at the time and focus. Shortly after graduating I intended on finding something that would allow me to work overseas, whether that be business or government work. Eventually I looked at pursing a law degree as well while searching for employment. Neither of those would come to fruition though. 

In the process of looking for a job, I was contacted by a college friend in the area who thought he had a role in Financial Services that would be a good fit for me. I figured it would be good to make some money while pursuing my original plan, so I figured hey, why not, right? Here's where going with the flow set me back again. He was right, it was a good fit, and I loved the company and it's culture. So much so that I ended up dropping my hunt and staying there for many years, eventually working my way up into management with a team of 20 associates. Regardless of how much I loved the company, there was always an itch in the corner of my mind, I just wasn't fulfilled. 

Time continued to tick by, and I again found myself going with the flow instead of pursuing what I really wanted to do. This summer, a few opportunities came up that gave me pause about the direction I wanted my career to go. I couldnt help but continue to think about all the various programming classes and resources I was dabbling in over the last year. I spent a lot of my limited downtime at the office shadowing with our developers and it gave me a lot of insight into a different career path. A few friends in that area really helped to encourage me, and as I spent more of my freetime working with resources they provided to me, it cemented that desire in my mind that this was what I wanted to do. I'm not sure why it took me so long, I think it may have been some sense of loyalty and hesitation that prevented me from acting sooner, but after giving it some serious thought (and encouragement from a wonderful wife!) I decided to go all in to pursue a dream of being in web development and technology! 

I know many would say it's probably not the wisest of decisions, but I decided to leave my previous role after saving up some money. 9-11 hour days, 2+ hours of commuting, along with general responsibilities as home can definitely be a hinderance to making any sort of change in a relatively quick timeframe. It is going to be hard, it will be frustrating, I probably will question myself at many points, but when I succeed it will make the success that much sweeter! If you want to make a change, take charge and figure out how to make it happen. It won't be easy, things like this never are, but you can't just sit around waiting for some sort of magic to happen. **You are your only hinderance!** I am determined to make it one way or another, and I'm happy to say that as of the end of July 2018 I've begun that journey with Flatiron School.
